second topic that Senna Phan discusses
is Sparta's crazy ideas about education
at the age of seven boys left their
homes and they became students in the
spartan education system the spartans
didn't give their kids shoes because
they believed it would toughen up their
feet and make them more agile they
didn't give them clean clothes they wore
the same pair of clothes all year round
in order to make them more tolerant of
the heat and the cold it sounded to me
like children were basically kept in a
constant state of hunger to get them
used to laboring without food if they
needed to in the future in military
campaigns kids had no shoes they had no
clean clothes they were going hungry
these days this would really be
considered child abuse and in the
Western world
I think only literally like homeless
people who are addicted to crack would
treat their kids this way it's a
difficult task for me to classify the
Spartan way of life because it really
defies modern political definitions
there are some aspects of the society
that make it seem like a communist
utopia there were public mess halls
which Xenophon says existed as an
effective check on disobedience men all
had to eat together in a communal
gathering like what's common today in
the American military from a young age
people were kept on a diet that just
barely sustained them and everyone was
provided with a certain amount of food
no more no less
according to Xenophon people couldn't
actually earn money I think he's
exaggerating about this feature of
Sparta because it's hard for me to
believe it's hard for me to imagine that
people didn't really have money because
people owned estates I found this part
pretty hilarious to imagine apparently
money was so large that if you brought
it into a house you really couldn't hide
it because you'd need a wagon to move it
so apparently money was so heavy that
you couldn't just bring it into the
house and hide it in a bag or something
the Masters and the servants of the
household would know that you had money
Xenophon also says that anyone who was
found with gold in their house would be
severely punished working physically to
help somebody else was more honourable
than spending
on somebody and this I can believe in
this kind of makes sense to me I can
relate to it um sometimes you just want
a friend to help you move sometimes you
just want a friend to like help you with
a social gathering sometimes you just
want to have somebody to help you out
with something sometimes you don't want
money from a friend it really seems like
Spartans couldn't have possessions of
their own the system was basically
what's yours is the States whether it
was your children your food your dogs
your horses nothing was really your own
anyone could use what you had as an
historical comparison during China's
Great Leap Forward communes were set up
in which communal kitchens were
introduced and money was replaced with
work points
I remember watching a Chinese movie
called to live and this movie depicts
China during this Great Leap Forward
period and when everyone had to donate
any iron they had to produce steel young
children actually had to perform hard
labor as well to produce this steel and
they were exhausted by it and in this
movie sadly there was a workplace
incident that killed a small child
however there were some aspects of
Sparta that weren't communist ik at all
as I've stated earlier in this video
everything that the Spartans did was for
the military everything was for the city
a communist society is supposed to be
stateless Sparta could actually be
classified as fascist in this way
because it was so nationalistic and
militaristic I view Sparta as pretty -
Tollett Aryan every aspect of people's
lives seems to have been controlled by
the state who you married who got you
pregnant who could you punish who could
punish you etc